.\"  Staple - A general-purpose data structure library in pure C89.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2021  Randoragon
.\"
.\"  This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\"  version 2.1 of the License.
.\"
.\"  This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\"  Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH LIBSTAPLE_MODES 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.SH NAME
sp_is_debug, sp_is_quiet, sp_is_abort \- check Staple library modes at runtime
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <staple.h>
.sp
int
.BR sp_is_debug (void)
.br
int
.BR sp_is_quiet (void)
.br
int
.BR sp_is_abort (void)
.sp
Link with \fI-lstaple\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions in this family can be used at runtime to determine whether the
.B Staple
library has been compiled with a certain mode enabled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR sp_is_debug ()
function shall return 1 if debug mode is active and 0 otherwise.
.P
The
.BR sp_is_quiet ()
function shall return 1 if quiet mode is active and 0 otherwise.
.P
The
.BR sp_is_abort ()
function shall return 1 if abort mode is active and 0 otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
These functions shall never fail.
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR libstaple (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR libstaple (7)
