.TH RND_STACK_CLEAR 3 DATE "librnd-VERSION"
.SH NAME
rnd_stack_clear - remove all elements from a stack
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <rnd.h>
.sp
int
.BR rnd_stack_clear "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
int
.RI (* dtor )(void*))
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The
.BR rnd_stack_clear ()
function removes every element from a stack. The stack does not have to contain
any elements, in which case nothing happens.
.P
.I stack
is a pointer to the stack that shall be cleared.
.P
.I dtor
is a pointer to a destructor function that shall be invoked on every element of
the stack.  This mechanism is useful if individual stack elements own memory
that should be freed (see EXAMPLES). If no such destructor function is needed,
.B NULL
can be passed to skip this functionality.
.P
The destructor function pointed to by
.I dtor
must return 0 for success, and anything else for failure. In debug mode, the
caught error code (if any) is printed on stderr.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.P
If successful, the
.BR rnd_stack_clear ()
function shall return 0 Otherwise, it shall
return a code indicating the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR rnd_stack_clear ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBRND_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
.I stack
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.IP \fBRND_EHANDLER\fP 1.5i
.I dtor
returned non-0 for some stack element.
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR librnd (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR librnd (7),
.BR rnd_stack (7),
.BR rnd_stack_create (3),
.BR rnd_stack_destroy (3),
.BR rnd_stack_copy (3),
.BR rnd_stack_map (3),
.BR rnd_stack_push (3),
.BR rnd_stack_insert (3),
.BR rnd_stack_quickinsert (3),
.BR rnd_stack_peek (3),
.BR rnd_stack_pop (3),
.BR rnd_stack_remove (3),
.BR rnd_stack_quickremove (3),
.BR rnd_stack_get (3),
.BR rnd_stack_set (3),
.BR rnd_stack_print (3)
