.\"M queue
.TH SP_QUEUE_REMOVE 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.\"NAME str
\- remove an element from any position of a queue
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_BEGIN
int
.BR sp_queue_remove "(struct sp_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx ,
int
.RI (* dtor )(void*))
.\"SS{
.br
$TYPE$
.BR sp_queue_remove$SUFFIX$ "(struct sp_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.\"SS}
.br
char
.RB * sp_queue_removestr "(struct sp_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_END
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions in the
.BR sp_queue_remove ()
family are used to remove elements from any position of a queue. The order of
remaining elements shall be preserved.
.P
.I queue
is the queue that shall be removed from.
.P
.I idx
is the index of the element that shall be removed. Indices start from 0 and
extend to the rear \(em 0 is the front element, 1 is the element behind it, and
so on.
.br
Removing position \fBn\fP requires up to \fIsize \fB/ 2\fR elements to be moved in
memory. Removing the element at position \fIsize \fB- 1\fR has the same effect as
.BR sp_queue_pop (3).
.br
.I idx
must be smaller than
.IR queue->size .
.SS Generic Form
.I dtor
is a pointer to a destructor function that shall be invoked on the removed
element. This mechanism is useful if individual queue elements own memory
that should be freed (see EXAMPLES). If no such destructor function is needed,
.B NULL
can be passed to skip this functionality.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_RETVAL_0_OR_CODE sp_queue_remove
.SS Suffixed Form
.\". MAN_RETVAL_ELEM_VALUE_SUFFIXED sp_queue_remove removed
.\". MAN_RETVAL_MANUALLY_FREE sp_queue_removestr removed string
.SH ERRORS
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF sp_queue_remove
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINVAL
.I queue
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINDEX
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_ECALLBK
.I dtor
returned non-0.
.SS Suffixed Form
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF_SUFFIXED sp_queue_remove
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.I queue
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.IR queue->elem_size
does not match the size of the function's return type (debug mode only).
.P
(the
.BR sp_queue_removestr ()
function returns
.B NULL
instead of 0)
.SH NOTES
.\". MAN_NOTE_DEBUG_AMBIGUOUS_ERROR sp_queue_removestr
.P
.\". MAN_NOTE_GENERIC_REMOVE_ELEM queue
.\". MAN_CONFORMING_TO
.SH EXAMPLES
.\". MAN_EXAMPLE_REMOVE_DTOR queue q
