.\"M queue
.TH SP_QUEUE_GET 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.\"NAME str
\- look up arbitrary element in a queue
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_BEGIN
void
.RB * sp_queue_get "(const struct sp_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.\"SS{
.br
$TYPE$
.BR sp_queue_get$SUFFIX$ "(const struct sp_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.\"SS}
.br
char
.RB * sp_queue_getstr "(const struct sp_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_END
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The functions in the
.BR sp_queue_get ()
family are used to look up the value of an arbitrary element in a queue. The
looked up element remains on the queue.
.P
.I queue
is the queue.
.P
.I idx
is the index of the element. Indices start from 0 and extend to the rear \(em 0
is the front element, 1 is the element behind it, and so on.
.br
.I idx
must be smaller than
.IR queue->size .
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_GENERIC_GET_SLIGHTLY_DIFFERENT queue
.P
.\". MAN_GENERIC_GET_IMPORTANT_USE_CASE queue
.SH RETURN VALUE
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_RETVAL_ADDRESS_AT sp_queue_get idx
.SS Suffixed Form
.\". MAN_RETVAL_VALUE_AT_SUFFIXED sp_queue_get idx
.SH ERRORS
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF sp_queue_get
.\". MAN_ERRCODE NULL
Either
.IR queue " or " output
are null pointers (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE NULL
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.SS Suffixed Form
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF_SUFFIXED sp_queue_get
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.I queue
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.IR queue->elem_size
does not match the size of the function's return type (debug mode only).
.P
(the
.BR sp_queue_getstr ()
function returns
.B NULL
instead of 0)
.SH NOTES
.\". MAN_NOTE_DEBUG_AMBIGUOUS_ERROR sp_queue_getstr
.P
.\". MAN_NOTE_DOES_NOT_COPY_STRING sp_queue_getstr queue
.\". MAN_CONFORMING_TO
