.TH RND_STACK_DESTROY 3 DATE "librnd-VERSION"
.SH NAME
rnd_stack_destroy \- destroy a stack
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <rnd.h>
.sp
int rnd_stack_destroy(struct rnd_stack
.RI * stack ,
int
.RI (* dtor )(void*))
.sp
Link with \fI-lrnd\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR rnd_stack_destroy ()
function
frees all memory comprising a stack. Accessing the memory after destruction is
undefined behavior, but the same
.I stack
variable can be safely reused to create a new stack.
.P
The
.BR rnd_stack_destroy ()
function shall first call
.BR rnd_stack_clear ()
to free all memory attributed to the contents of
.IR stack ,
and finally the memory of the container itself is freed.
.P
.I stack
is a pointer to the stack that shall be freed.
.P
.I dtor
is transparently passed to the
.BR rnd_stack_clear ()
function. See
.BR rnd_stack_clear (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the
.BR rnd_stack_destroy ()
function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall
return a code indicating the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR rnd_stack_destroy ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBRND_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
.I stack
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.IP \fBRND_EHANDLER\fP 1.5i
.I dtor
returned non-0 for some stack element.
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR librnd (7).
.SH EXAMPLES
An example demonstrating the use of the
.I dtor
function can be found in
.BR rnd_stack_clear (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR librnd (7),
.BR rnd_stack (7),
.BR rnd_stack_create (3),
.BR rnd_stack_clear (3),
.BR rnd_stack_copy (3),
.BR rnd_stack_foreach (3),
.BR rnd_stack_push (3),
.BR rnd_stack_insert (3),
.BR rnd_stack_qinsert (3),
.BR rnd_stack_peek (3),
.BR rnd_stack_pop (3),
.BR rnd_stack_remove (3),
.BR rnd_stack_qremove (3),
.BR rnd_stack_get (3),
.BR rnd_stack_set (3),
.BR rnd_stack_print (3)
