.TH RND_STACK_REMOVE 3 DATE "librnd-VERSION"
.SH NAME
rnd_stack_remove, rnd_stack_removec, rnd_stack_removes, rnd_stack_removei,
rnd_stack_removel, rnd_stack_removesc, rnd_stack_removeuc, rnd_stack_removeus,
rnd_stack_removeui, rnd_stack_removeul, rnd_stack_removef, rnd_stack_removed,
rnd_stack_removeld \- remove an element from any position of a stack
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <rnd.h>
.sp
int
.BR rnd_stack_remove "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx ,
void
.RI * output )
.br
char
.BR rnd_stack_removec "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
short
.BR rnd_stack_removes "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
int
.BR rnd_stack_removei "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
long
.BR rnd_stack_removel "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
signed char
.BR rnd_stack_removesc "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
unsigned char
.BR rnd_stack_removeuc "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
unsigned short
.BR rnd_stack_removeus "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
unsigned int
.BR rnd_stack_removeui "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
unsigned long
.BR rnd_stack_removeul "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
float
.BR rnd_stack_removef "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
double
.BR rnd_stack_removed "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
long double
.BR rnd_stack_removeld "(struct rnd_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.sp
Link with \fI-lrnd\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions in the
.BR rnd_stack_remove ()
family are used to remove elements from any position of a stack. The order of
remaining elements shall be preserved.
.P
.I stack
is the stack that shall be removed from.
.P
.I idx
is the index of the element that shall be removed. Indices start from 0 and
extend downwards \(em 0 is the top element, 1 is the element below it, and so
on.
.br
Removing position
.BR n " requires " n
elements to be moved in memory. Removing the 0th element has the same effect as
.BR rnd_stack_pop (3).
.br
.I idx
must be smaller than
.IR stack "'s " size .
.SS Generic Form
.I output
is the start of an adequately-sized block of memory the removed element shall be
copied into.
.I output
must not overlap in memory with the removed element.
.B NULL
can be passed to skip this functionality.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.SS Generic Form
If successful, the
.BR rnd_stack_remove ()
function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return a code indicating the
error.
.SS Suffixed Form
If successful, the suffixed
.BR rnd_stack_remove ()
functions shall return the value of the removed element. Otherwise, they shall
return 0.
.SH ERRORS
.SS Generic Form
The
.BR rnd_stack_remove ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBRND_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
.I stack
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.IP \fBRND_EINDEX\fP 1.5i
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.SS Suffixed Form
The suffixed
.BR rnd_stack_remove ()
functions shall fail if:
.IP 0 1.5i
.I stack
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.IP 0 1.5i
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.IP 0 1.5i
.IR stack "'s " elem_size
does not match the size of the function's return type (debug mode only).
.P
Note that 0 can also be a successful return value, since it is a number that can
be stored on the stack, like any other.
.SH NOTES
Functions of the suffixed form do not provide an unambiguous error-detecting
interface with return codes. This design choice was made for 2 reasons:
.IP (1)
It is very convenient to have these functions return the value of the element
directly.
.sp -1
.IP (2)
The only errors that can occur are such resulting from library misuse by the
end-user, and not caused by external factors such as insufficient memory, etc.
This makes these errors far less important to report.
.P
This means there is a guaranteed runtime uncertainty whenever a suffixed
function returns 0. However, the functions shall still print error messages when
appropriate, so failures can be told apart from successes by the presence or
absence of those (quiet mode needs to be disabled).
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR librnd (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR librnd (7),
.BR rnd_stack (7),
.BR rnd_stack_create (3),
.BR rnd_stack_destroy (3),
.BR rnd_stack_clear (3),
.BR rnd_stack_copy (3),
.BR rnd_stack_foreach (3),
.BR rnd_stack_push (3),
.BR rnd_stack_insert (3),
.BR rnd_stack_qinsert (3),
.BR rnd_stack_peek (3),
.BR rnd_stack_pop (3),
.BR rnd_stack_qremove (3),
.BR rnd_stack_get (3),
.BR rnd_stack_set (3),
.BR rnd_stack_print (3)
