.\"  Staple - A general-purpose data structure library in pure C89.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2021  Randoragon
.\" 
.\"  This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\"  version 2.1 of the License.
.\" 
.\"  This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\"  Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH SP_STACK_FOREACH 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.SH NAME
sp_stack_foreach \- run a function for each stack element
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <staple.h>
.sp
int
.BR sp_stack_foreach "(struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
int
.RI (* func ")(void*, size_t))"
.sp
Link with \fI-lstaple\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR sp_stack_foreach ()
function intakes a pointer to a function, then iterates through all stack
elements in no particular order, and runs that function for each one.
.P
.I stack
is a pointer to the stack.
.P
.I func
is the pointer to a function. The function must be implemented in such
a way that the first argument
.RB ( void* )
is the address to the current element, and the second
.RB ( size_t )
is the index of the current element (index 0 corresponds to the top of the
stack, 1 is the element below it and so on).
.P
The function pointed to by
.I func
must return 0 for success, and anything else for failure. In debug mode, the
caught error code (if any) is printed on stderr.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the
.BR sp_stack_foreach ()
function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return a code indicating the
error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR sp_stack_foreach ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBSP_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
Either
.IR stack " or " func
are null pointers (debug mode only).
.IP \fBSP_EHANDLER\fP 1.5i
.I func
returned non-0 for some stack element.
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR libstaple (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR libstaple (7),
.BR sp_stack (7),
.BR sp_stack_create (3),
.BR sp_stack_destroy (3),
.BR sp_stack_clear (3),
.BR sp_stack_copy (3),
.BR sp_stack_push (3),
.BR sp_stack_insert (3),
.BR sp_stack_qinsert (3),
.BR sp_stack_peek (3),
.BR sp_stack_pop (3),
.BR sp_stack_remove (3),
.BR sp_stack_qremove (3),
.BR sp_stack_get (3),
.BR sp_stack_set (3),
.BR sp_stack_print (3)
