.TH RND_QUEUE_GET 3 DATE "librnd-VERSION"
.SH NAME
rnd_queue_get, rnd_queue_getc, rnd_queue_gets, rnd_queue_geti, rnd_queue_getl,
rnd_queue_getsc, rnd_queue_getuc, rnd_queue_getus, rnd_queue_getui,
rnd_queue_getul, rnd_queue_getf, rnd_queue_getd, rnd_queue_getld \- look up
arbitrary element in a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <rnd.h>
.sp
int
.BR rnd_queue_get "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx ,
void
.RI * output )
.br
char
.BR rnd_queue_getc "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
short
.BR rnd_queue_gets "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
int
.BR rnd_queue_geti "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
long
.BR rnd_queue_getl "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
signed char
.BR rnd_queue_getsc "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
unsigned char
.BR rnd_queue_getuc "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
unsigned short
.BR rnd_queue_getus "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
unsigned int
.BR rnd_queue_getui "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
unsigned long
.BR rnd_queue_getul "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
float
.BR rnd_queue_getf "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
double
.BR rnd_queue_getd "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
long double
.BR rnd_queue_getld "(const struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.sp
Link with \fI-lrnd\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The functions in the
.BR rnd_queue_get ()
family are used to look up the value of an arbitrary element in a queue. The
looked up element remains on the queue.
.P
.I queue
is the queue.
.P
.I idx
is the index of the element to look up. Indices start from 0 and extend
to the rear \(em 0 is the front element, 1 is the element behind it, and so on.
.br
.I idx
must be smaller than
.IR queue "'s " size .
.SS Generic Form
.I output
is the start of an adequately-sized block of memory the element shall be copied
into.
.I output
must not overlap in memory with the element.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.SS Generic Form
If successful, the
.BR rnd_queue_get ()
function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return a code indicating the
error.
.SS Suffixed Form
If successful, the suffixed
.BR rnd_queue_get ()
functions shall return the value of the element at \fIidx\fP. Otherwise, they shall
return 0.
.SH ERRORS
.SS Generic Form
The
.BR rnd_queue_get ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBRND_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
Either
.IR queue " or " output
are null pointers (debug mode only).
.IP \fBRND_EINDEX\fP 1.5i
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.SS Suffixed Form
The suffixed
.BR rnd_queue_get ()
functions shall fail if:
.IP 0 1.5i
.I queue
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.IP 0 1.5i
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.IP 0 1.5i
.IR queue "'s " elem_size
does not match the size of the function's return type (debug mode only).
.P
Note that 0 can also be a successful return value, since it is a number that can
be stored on the queue, like any other.
.SH NOTES
Functions of the suffixed form do not provide an unambiguous error-detecting
interface with return codes. This design choice was made for 2 reasons:
.IP (1)
It is very convenient to have these functions return the value of the element
directly.
.sp -1
.IP (2)
The only errors that can occur are such resulting from library misuse by the
end-user, and not caused by external factors such as insufficient memory, etc.
This makes these errors far less important to report.
.P
This means there is a guaranteed runtime uncertainty whenever a suffixed
function returns 0. However, the functions shall still print error messages when
appropriate, so failures can be told apart from successes by the presence or
absence of those (quiet mode needs to be disabled).
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR librnd (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR librnd (7),
.BR rnd_queue (7),
.BR rnd_queue_create (3),
.BR rnd_queue_destroy (3),
.BR rnd_queue_clear (3),
.BR rnd_queue_copy (3),
.BR rnd_queue_map (3),
.BR rnd_queue_push (3),
.BR rnd_queue_insert (3),
.BR rnd_queue_quickinsert (3),
.BR rnd_queue_peek (3),
.BR rnd_queue_pop (3),
.BR rnd_queue_remove (3),
.BR rnd_queue_quickremove (3),
.BR rnd_queue_set (3),
.BR rnd_queue_print (3)

