.TH RND_QUEUE_MAP 3 DATE "librnd-VERSION"
.SH NAME
rnd_queue_map \- run a function for each queue element
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <rnd.h>
.sp
int
.BR rnd_queue_map "(struct rnd_queue"
.RI * queue ,
int
.RI (* func ")(void*, size_t))"
.sp
Link with \fI-lrnd\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR rnd_queue_map ()
function intakes a pointer to a map function, then iterates through all queue
elements in no particular order, and runs the map function for each one.
.P
.I queue
is a pointer to the queue.
.P
.I func
is the pointer to the map function. The map function must be implemented in such
a way that the first argument
.RB ( void* )
is the address to the current element, and the second
.RB ( size_t )
is the index of the current element (index 0 corresponds to the front of the
queue, 1 is the element behind it and so on).
.P
The map function pointed to by
.I func
must return 0 for success, and anything else for failure. In debug mode, the
caught error code (if any) is printed on stderr.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the
.BR rnd_queue_map ()
function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return a code indicating the
error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR rnd_queue_map ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBRND_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
Either
.IR queue " or " func
are null pointers (debug mode only).
.IP \fBRND_EHANDLER\fP 1.5i
.I func
returned non-0 for some queue element.
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR librnd (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR librnd (7),
.BR rnd_queue (7),
.BR rnd_queue_create (3),
.BR rnd_queue_destroy (3),
.BR rnd_queue_clear (3),
.BR rnd_queue_copy (3),
.BR rnd_queue_push (3),
.BR rnd_queue_insert (3),
.BR rnd_queue_quickinsert (3),
.BR rnd_queue_peek (3),
.BR rnd_queue_pop (3),
.BR rnd_queue_remove (3),
.BR rnd_queue_quickremove (3),
.BR rnd_queue_get (3),
.BR rnd_queue_set (3),
.BR rnd_queue_print (3)
