.TH RND_QUEUE_DESTROY 3 DATE "librnd-VERSION"
.SH NAME
rnd_queue_destroy \- destroy a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <rnd.h>
.sp
int rnd_queue_destroy(struct rnd_queue
.RI * queue ,
int
.RI (* dtor )(void*))
.sp
Link with \fI-lrnd\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR rnd_queue_destroy ()
function frees all memory comprising a queue. Accessing the memory after
destruction is undefined behavior, but the same
.I queue
variable can be safely reused to create a new queue.
.P
The
.BR rnd_queue_destroy ()
function shall first call
.BR rnd_queue_clear ()
to free all memory attributed to the contents of
.IR queue ,
and finally the memory of the container itself
is freed.
.P
.I queue
is a pointer to the queue that shall be freed.
.P
.I dtor
is transparently passed to the
.BR rnd_queue_clear ()
function. See
.BR rnd_queue_clear (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the
.BR rnd_queue_destroy ()
function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall
return a code indicating the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR rnd_queue_destroy ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBRND_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
.I queue
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.IP \fBRND_EHANDLER\fP 1.5i
.I dtor
returned non-0 for some queue element.
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR librnd (7).
.SH EXAMPLES
An example for how to use the
.I dtor
function can be found in
.BR rnd_queue_clear (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR librnd (7),
.BR rnd_queue (7),
.BR rnd_queue_create (3),
.BR rnd_queue_clear (3),
.BR rnd_queue_copy (3),
.BR rnd_queue_map (3),
.BR rnd_queue_push (3),
.BR rnd_queue_insert (3),
.BR rnd_queue_quickinsert (3),
.BR rnd_queue_peek (3),
.BR rnd_queue_pop (3),
.BR rnd_queue_remove (3),
.BR rnd_queue_quickremove (3),
.BR rnd_queue_get (3),
.BR rnd_queue_set (3),
.BR rnd_queue_print (3)
