.\"  Staple - A general-purpose data structure library in pure C89.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2021  Randoragon
.\"
.\"  This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\"  version 2.1 of the License.
.\"
.\"  This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\"  Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH SP_QUEUE_FOREACH 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.SH NAME
sp_queue_foreach \- run a function for each queue element
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <staple.h>
.sp
int
.BR sp_queue_foreach "(struct sp_queue"
.RI * queue ,
int
.RI (* func ")(void*, size_t))"
.sp
Link with \fI-lstaple\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR sp_queue_foreach ()
function intakes a pointer to a function, then iterates through all queue
elements in no particular order, and runs that function for each one.
.P
.I queue
is a pointer to the queue.
.P
.I func
is the pointer to a function. The function must be implemented in such
a way that the first argument
.RB ( void* )
is the address to the current element, and the second
.RB ( size_t )
is the index of the current element (index 0 corresponds to the front of the
queue, 1 is the element behind it and so on).
.P
The function pointed to by
.I func
must return 0 for success, and anything else for failure. In debug mode, the
caught error code (if any) is printed on stderr.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the
.BR sp_queue_foreach ()
function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return a code indicating the
error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR sp_queue_foreach ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBSP_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
Either
.IR queue " or " func
are null pointers (debug mode only).
.IP \fBSP_ECALLBK\fP 1.5i
.I func
returned non-0 for some queue element.
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR libstaple (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR libstaple (7),
.BR sp_queue (7),
.BR sp_queue_create (3),
.BR sp_queue_destroy (3),
.BR sp_queue_clear (3),
.BR sp_queue_push (3),
.BR sp_queue_peek (3),
.BR sp_queue_pop (3),
.BR sp_queue_insert (3),
.BR sp_queue_remove (3),
.BR sp_queue_qinsert (3),
.BR sp_queue_qremove (3),
.BR sp_queue_get (3),
.BR sp_queue_set (3),
.BR sp_queue_eq (3),
.BR sp_queue_copy (3),
.BR sp_queue_print (3)
