.\"  Staple - A general-purpose data structure library in pure C89.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2021  Randoragon
.\"
.\"  This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\"  version 2.1 of the License.
.\"
.\"  This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\"  Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH SP_QUEUE_DESTROY 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.SH NAME
sp_queue_destroy \- destroy a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <staple.h>
.sp
int sp_queue_destroy(struct sp_queue
.RI * queue ,
int
.RI (* dtor )(void*))
.sp
Link with \fI-lstaple\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR sp_queue_destroy ()
function frees all memory comprising a queue. Accessing the memory after
destruction is undefined behavior, but the same
.I queue
variable can be safely reused to create a new queue.
.P
The
.BR sp_queue_destroy ()
function shall first call
.BR sp_queue_clear ()
to free all memory attributed to the contents of
.IR queue ,
and finally the memory of the container itself
is freed.
.P
.I queue
is a pointer to the queue that shall be freed.
.P
.I dtor
is transparently passed to the
.BR sp_queue_clear ()
function. See
.BR sp_queue_clear (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the
.BR sp_queue_destroy ()
function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return a code indicating the
error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR sp_queue_destroy ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBSP_EINVAL\fP 1.5i
.I queue
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.IP \fBSP_ECALLBK\fP 1.5i
.I dtor
returned non-0 for some queue element.
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR libstaple (7).
.SH EXAMPLES
An example demonstrating the use of the
.I dtor
function can be found in
.BR sp_queue_clear (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR libstaple (7),
.BR sp_queue (7),
.BR sp_queue_create (3),
.BR sp_queue_clear (3),
.BR sp_queue_push (3),
.BR sp_queue_peek (3),
.BR sp_queue_pop (3),
.BR sp_queue_insert (3),
.BR sp_queue_remove (3),
.BR sp_queue_qinsert (3),
.BR sp_queue_qremove (3),
.BR sp_queue_get (3),
.BR sp_queue_set (3),
.BR sp_queue_eq (3),
.BR sp_queue_copy (3),
.BR sp_queue_foreach (3),
.BR sp_queue_print (3)
