.\"  Staple - A general-purpose data structure library in pure C89.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2021  Randoragon
.\"
.\"  This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\"  version 2.1 of the License.
.\"
.\"  This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\"  Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\"  License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH SP_QUEUE_GETPTR 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.SH NAME
sp_queue_getptr \- get the address of an arbitrary element in a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
#include <staple.h>
.sp
void
.RB * sp_queue_getptr "(const struct sp_queue"
.RI * queue ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.sp
Link with \fI-lstaple\fP.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The
.BR sp_queue_getptr ()
function is used to directly access the address of an arbitrary element in a
queue.
.P
The intended use case is when some library function intakes a pointer and writes
something to that location, e.g.
.BR scanf (3).
In such instances, it may be faster to pass the direct location, rather than
using a proxy variable/buffer.
.P
.I queue
is the queue.
.P
.I idx
is the index of the element. Indices start from 0 and extend to the rear \(em 0
is the front element, 1 is the element behind it, and so on.
.br
.I idx
must be smaller than
.IR queue "'s " size .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR sp_queue_getptr ()
function shall return the address of the element at \fIidx\fP.
.P
The returned address points to some location on
.IR queue 's
.I data
buffer. As such, it should be used with care not to break the internal
structure.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR sp_queue_getptr ()
function shall fail if:
.IP \fBNULL\fP 1.5i
.IR queue
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.IP \fBNULL\fP 1.5i
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.SH CONFORMING TO
See
.BR libstaple (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.BR libstaple (7),
.BR sp_queue (7),
.BR sp_queue_create (3),
.BR sp_queue_destroy (3),
.BR sp_queue_clear (3),
.BR sp_queue_copy (3),
.BR sp_queue_foreach (3),
.BR sp_queue_push (3),
.BR sp_queue_insert (3),
.BR sp_queue_qinsert (3),
.BR sp_queue_peek (3),
.BR sp_queue_pop (3),
.BR sp_queue_remove (3),
.BR sp_queue_qremove (3),
.BR sp_queue_get (3),
.BR sp_queue_set (3),
.BR sp_queue_print (3)
