.\"M stack
.TH SP_STACK_PUSH 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.\"NAME b str strn
\- push a new element onto a stack
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_BEGIN
int
.BR sp_stack_push "(struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
const void
.RI * elem )
.\"SS{
.br
int
.BR sp_stack_push$SUFFIX$ "(struct sp_stack
.RI * stack ,
$TYPE$
.IR elem )
.\"SS}
.br
int
.BR sp_stack_pushb "(struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
int
.IR elem )
.br
int
.BR sp_stack_pushstr "(struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
const char
.RI * elem )
.br
int
.BR sp_stack_pushstrn "(struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
const char
.RI * elem ,
size_t
.IR len )
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_END
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions in the
.BR sp_stack_push ()
family are used to push a new element onto a stack. The element's size must
match the stack's
.I elem_size
field, so it is illegal to, for example, create a stack with
.I elem_size
equal to
.BR sizeof(int) ,
and then use it with the
.BR sp_stack_pushc ()
function.
.P
.I stack
is the stack that shall be pushed onto.
.P
.I
elem
is the element to be pushed.
.SS Generic Form
.I elem
must be a void pointer to the first byte of the element that shall be pushed.
The number of bytes to copy is equal to the
.IR stack->elem_size
field.
.SS Suffixed Form
.I elem
is passed directly in the function argument.
.P
The
.BR sp_stack_pushstr ()
function creates a copy of the string pointed to by
.I elem
and stores the new pointer on the stack. The string must fit in
.I SIZE_MAX
bytes, including the null terminator.
.P
The
.BR sp_stack_pushstrn ()
function is equivalent to
.BR sp_stack_pushstr (),
except it shall always copy exactly
.I len
bytes and append a null terminator at the end.
.I len
must be smaller than
.IR SIZE_MAX .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.\". MAN_RETVAL_0_OR_CODE_FAMILY sp_stack_push
.SH ERRORS
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF_FAMILY sp_stack_push
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINVAL
.I stack
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_ERANGE
Maximum buffer size exceeded. See BUGS in
.BR sp_stack (7).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_ENOMEM
Memory allocation failed.
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF sp_stack_push
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINVAL
.I elem
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.SS Suffixed Form
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF_SUFFIXED sp_stack_push
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EILLEGAL
.IR stack->elem_size
does not match the size of the
.I elem
argument (debug mode only).
.P
The
.BR sp_stack_pushstr ()
and
.BR sp_stack_pushstrn ()
functions shall fail if:
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINVAL
.I elem
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_ERANGE
string too long or
.I len
too large.
.\". MAN_CONFORMING_TO
