.\"M stack
.TH SP_STACK_GET 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.\"NAME str
\- look up arbitrary element in a stack
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_BEGIN
void
.RB * sp_stack_get "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.\"SS{
.br
$TYPE$
.BR sp_stack_get$SUFFIX$ "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.\"SS}
.br
int
.RB * sp_stack_getb "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.br
char
.RB * sp_stack_getstr "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx )
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_END
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The functions in the
.BR sp_stack_get ()
family are used to look up the value of an arbitrary element in a stack. The
looked up element remains on the stack.
.P
.I stack
is the stack.
.P
.I idx
is the index of the element. Indices start from 0 and extend downwards \(em 0 is
the top element, 1 is the element below it, and so on.
.br
.I idx
must be smaller than
.IR stack->size .
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_GENERIC_GET_SLIGHTLY_DIFFERENT stack
.P
.\". MAN_GENERIC_GET_IMPORTANT_USE_CASE stack
.SH RETURN VALUE
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_RETVAL_ADDRESS_AT sp_stack_get idx
.SS Suffixed Form
.\". MAN_RETVAL_VALUE_AT_SUFFIXED sp_stack_get idx
.SH ERRORS
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF sp_stack_get
.\". MAN_ERRCODE NULL
.I stack
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE NULL
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.SS Suffixed Form
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF_SUFFIXED sp_stack_get
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.I stack
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE 0
.IR stack->elem_size
does not match the size of the function's return type (debug mode only).
.P
(the
.BR sp_stack_getstr ()
function returns
.B NULL
instead of 0)
.SH NOTES
.\". MAN_NOTE_DEBUG_AMBIGUOUS_ERROR sp_stack_getstr
.P
.\". MAN_NOTE_DOES_NOT_COPY_STRING sp_stack_getstr stack
.\". MAN_CONFORMING_TO
