.\"M stack
.TH SP_STACK_SET 3 DATE "libstaple-VERSION"
.\"NAME str strn
\- set the value of an arbitrary element in a stack
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_BEGIN
int
.BR sp_stack_set "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx ,
void
.RI * val )
.\"SS{
.br
int
.BR sp_stack_set$SUFFIX$ "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx ,
$TYPE$
.IR val )
.\"SS}
.br
int
.BR sp_stack_setb "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx ,
int
.IR val )
.br
int
.BR sp_stack_setstr "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx ,
const char
.RI * val )
.br
int
.BR sp_stack_setstrn "(const struct sp_stack"
.RI * stack ,
size_t
.IR idx ,
const char
.RI * val ,
size_t
.IR len )
.\". MAN_SYNOPSIS_END
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The functions in the
.BR sp_stack_set ()
family are used to set the value of an arbitrary element in a stack. The
previous value is overwritten and non-recoverable.
.P
.I stack
is the stack.
.P
.I idx
is the index of the element that shall be overwritten. Indices start from 0 and
extend downwards \(em 0 is the top element, 1 is the element below it, and so
on.
.br
.I idx
must be smaller or equal to
.IR stack->size .
.P
.I val
is the new value for the element at position
.IR idx .
.SS Generic Form
.I val
must be a void pointer to the first byte of the new value. The source and
destination blocks must not overlap in memory. The number of bytes to copy is
equal to
.IR stack->elem_size
field.
.SS Suffixed Form
.I val
is passed directly in the function argument.
.P
The
.BR sp_stack_setstr ()
function creates a copy of the string pointed to by
.I val
and stores the new pointer on the stack. The string must fit in
.I SIZE_MAX
bytes, including the null terminator. The previous string is freed.
.P
The
.BR sp_stack_setstrn ()
function is equivalent to
.BR sp_stack_setstr (),
except it shall always copy exactly
.I len
bytes and append a null terminator at the end.
.I len
must be smaller than
.IR SIZE_MAX .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.\". MAN_RETVAL_0_OR_CODE_FAMILY sp_stack_set
.SH ERRORS
.\". MAN_SHALL_FAIL_IF_FAMILY sp_stack_set
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINVAL
.I stack
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINDEX
.I idx
out of range (debug mode only).
.SS Generic Form
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINVAL
.I val
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.SS Suffixed Form
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EILLEGAL
.IR stack->elem_size
does not match the size of the
.I val
argument (debug mode only).
.P
The
.BR sp_stack_setstr ()
and
.BR sp_stack_setstrn ()
functions shall fail if:
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_EINVAL
.I val
is a null pointer (debug mode only).
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_ERANGE
string too long or
.I len
too large.
.\". MAN_ERRCODE SP_ENOMEM
Memory allocation failed.
.\". MAN_CONFORMING_TO
